---
YIP: 14
Título: yEarn Rewards Reserve
Estado: Rejected
Autor: YieldBouncer (@yieldbouncer)
Discusiones: https://gov.yearn.finance/t/yip-14-yearn-rewards-reserve/136
Fecha de creación: 2020-07-24
---

## Explicación corta
Without a cash reserve, it is difficult to sustain and improve the protocol further. As a community, we need to start capturing and reserving a percentage of the value being generated by yEarn in order to support further development, improve security, sponsor research, e.t.c.

To get started, I propose we capture 5% of all yields earned through yEarn to be used as a reserve for the protocol.

## Resumen
@andre.cronje has done an amazing job so far at developing the protocol. As a community, we should support his efforts. To achieve that, I propose that we should start reserving 5% of all yields earned for protocol use. How we plan to use it and what would be the sensible threshold for the reserve percentage can be determined in a different proposal

## Motivación
One of the best things about the yEarn ecosystem is that there isn’t any pre-mined tokens. No money was taken from VC nor did @andre.cronje attempted to IXO (e.g. IDO, ICO) YFI tokens. This is as good as we can get when it comes to decentralization for a working and profitable defi project! Unfortunately, there are also downsides for not having some cash reserved:

- Unable to cover expensive audits for contracts
- Incentive to continue building awesome products
- Fund/grants to sponsor researches in order to improve the products
- General marketing and user support

**A FAVOR**: Reserve 5% of all yields earned through yEarn for protocol use.

**EN CONTRA**: No changes. All rewards will continue to distribute evenly among YFI stakers.

## Metadatos

| Nombre                | Valor                                      |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Propuesta por         | 0x09173487b272311Edda01F45f97911aEB6aBd602 |
| Votos totales a favor     | 332839.5446 (99.69%)                       |
| Votos totales en contra | 1005.9567 (0.30%)                          |
| Quorum              | 3.06% 𐄂                                    |
| Bloque inicial         | 10525527                                   |
| Bloque final           | 10542807                                   |

Fuente: [yieldfarming.info YFI Governance Information](https://yieldfarming.info/yearn/vote/)

## Derechos de autor
Derechos de autor y derechos relacionados con renuncia a través de [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
